So, I would say this.
If some of y'all just show up a little
bit early, you'd get this before service,
but Hey, just this not saying anything,
you know, just, just trying to help.
Um, but, um, also I always encourage you
to do that after service as well, because
it's just a great way again, to connect.
Don't just run out, um, connect
with those who, um, have been
obviously here at service.
Uh, things like that as well.
So, um, so last week we
took some time to remember.
So last week we took communion and we took
time to remember Jesus's example, right?
What did Jesus do for us run?
He died on the cross, right?
He died for our sins so that we can have
a relationship with him, be forgiven,
um, and really spend eternity with him.
But we were mimicking.
What I would believe in the word.
It says his most important example of
serving one, another serving one another.
And so we were challenged not to.
Remember what God did for us on the cross.
But to remember the example, God set
for us to live in serving one another.
So as I was preparing really for
communion coming up a couple of
weeks ago, I started thinking, Hey,
we've got a couple of weeks before I
can start doing a Christmas series.
What should I preach on?
And God brought Exodus
16 in the next week.
We'll deal with the exit 17, where
there was a people that forgot.
There was a people that
forgot to remember, and I
thought this would be good.
We took time last week to remember what
happens when we forget to remember.
Um, and I, I, as I began to seek the
Lord, we can begin to see in verse or in,
in Exodus 16, where the people of Israel
forgot to remember what God had done for
them and begin to complain and grumble.
And so we're going to be an exited
16 today, but before we get started,
as you guys are turning there,
I wanted to start off this one.
I think.
I would say this the way in which
we, um, lead worship service,
if you're ever wondering, Hey,
why do we sing these songs?
What's the purpose behind
the words and everything.
All of that is really an
opportunity to give praise to
God for what he has done for us.
Um, or we're affirming promises
that God has given us in.
But I wanted to start off by asking, and
I'm going to try to get as many of you
to answer this statement, um, by sharing
one thing that God has done for you.
One thing that God has done for you, where
you can say, Hey, God's done this for me.
And we can think of it in terms of just
what's the Bible say God's done for
us, or it could be a practical example.
Maybe God's met a
spiritual, um, relationship.
Or financial need for you.
So what is one thing?
And there may be a hundred things, but
what's one thing God's done for you.
So just start popping them off.
Let's go.
What's one thing God's
done for you, your wife.
Hey, that's great.
Are you pointing to her to answer both?
Okay, now you're good.
Who else?
Family.
Kids.
Children.
Okay.
That's one thing that God's done.
Yes, physical healing.
That's great.
What else?
Hoping everybody's got something, Joe.
What's God done for you?
Yeah, that's awesome.
That's great.
Couple more.
Let's get it done for you, Laura.
What's gotten done.
A lot.
Okay.
Just all that.
No, you're good.
I'm just calling you out.
I'm just calling yet.
So I'll stop doing that because you
guys are starting to get uncomfortable
and you're wanting to see the quickest
route to the restroom right now.
Cause you don't want to be called out.
So let me share what God's done for me
and I kind of summarized it this way.
Um, and, and kind of just,
I think it makes sense.
God's provided.
A friend to invite me to church
almost 12 years ago, 12 years ago,
when I went to that church, God
provided a church to invest in me.
Um, what I was at that church, grace
and forgiveness found me, um, when
I was at that church and as grace
and forgiveness family, and as
people invested in me, God gave me a
call and drew me into the ministry.
Um, as God called me into the
ministry, he gave me Jesus to follow.
And provide for all of
my needs along the way.
See, that's a summary of
what God's done for me.
And there's, there's so many stories
and I'm going to share a couple more
of those stories throughout this
message of what God has done for me.
But each of us could probably sit here.
And if we had time to really reflect
and list that all the things God's
done for us, we would be thrown a fit
and whatever you, by throwing a fit,
like throwing a party of celebrating.
Because God has done so much
for us, but I do recognize this.
What if you're in the room
and maybe you're saying, Hey
God, hasn't done that for me.
My hope is by the end of today, as you
begin to see what God's done for the
people of Israel, what God's done for
some of the stories that you'll hear
from not only for me, but hopefully as
we begin to get to know one another and
see what God's done, you guys will start
seeing that God's always been working and
he will continue to work in your life.
See, I think about this, what happens
when God gets home or whatever life.
I mean, I know you guys know this right.
Life gets hard.
Um, sometimes our
marriages are struggling.
Sometimes we are struggling because
of an unexpected financial bill.
Sometimes we're struggling because
of relationships with family
members, nobody has issues with like
relational issues with family at all.
Anybody.
No, I'm, I'm maybe I'm
the only one in this.
Um, but I think it's easy for us to
forget to remember when we have struggles.
That God has done so much for us.
And I just started thinking about this.
When we think about, you know,
difficult lives or things being
difficult, Phillip Brooks said this,
he says, do not pray for easy lives.
Pray to be stronger
men and stronger women.
He says, do not pray for tasks
equal to the powers to your powers.
Pray for powers equal to, to
the tasks that you have at hand.
I've heard it this way.
Don't tell God your problem.
Tell your problems about your God.
See many times in our lives,
whenever things get difficult, we
forget all that God's done for us.
And we begin to complain and we begin
to get frustrated and we begin to
fall away from the life that God's
called us to one clean to him in
those times, but to celebrate and
not forget what God has done for us.
So the only way in which we can have
confidence in doing that is not.
Um, not forgetting.
And so as we explore the texts today
and exit a 16, we're going to see
a people where they did forgive.
And, uh, we're going to learn from them.
So I want to kind of just give a
brief background before we jump into
exit 16, because if we do, you'll be
like, what the heck just happened.
So how many people in here are familiar
by raise of hands of the people, uh,
leaving Egypt and the red sea parting.
Anybody heard that story?
The red seat party.
Good.
So we have a good general idea of that.
So really this is what this
is coming off of people of
Israel cried out for 400 years.
God said, Releases from Egypt, right?
The slavery of Egypt.
And so God heard them and they, he sent
Moses, Moses came, if you know the story,
all these different plagues came and
finally Pharaoh says, you can leave.
They have.
The leave and Pharaoh decides to change
his mind and he chases after them.
They get to this red sea and God
tells Moses to raise up his hands to
part the waters and the waters part.
And the people walk through.
One of the things I love about this
story and the story of Joshua is when
they cross the water, when the water is
parted, they walk through on dry ground.
They don't just walk through on the
ground, which means it could be muddy.
They walked through on dry
ground, not only to God removed
the water, but he dried up.
So they could walk on it.
So they walked across the, the
ocean or the red sea, excuse me.
And as soon as they get across, all the
Egyptians are falling them in the ocean.
Cause back down on them.
There's red sea.
Sorry.
I keep saying that red sea comes back
down on them and they're destroyed.
So Exodus 15 is, is really these people
spending the whole time celebrating
and giving praise to what God did
because it's easy when life's going.
Good to praise God.
But quickly, we'll see here and exit a 16
and really at the back end of Exodus 15,
we see where the people begin to complain
and grumble because they didn't have any.
And God said this.
I want to kind of just read a couple
verses in Exodus 15, and then we're going
to read part of 16 and jump in here.
Um, he says this in Exodus 1522, it says
then Moses led Israel on from the red sea.
And they went into the wilderness of
Sherm and they journey for three days
in the wilderness without finding water.
And they came tomorrow, but they
could not find water to drink
at Mara because it was bitter.
And that is why it was named.
The people grumbled to Moses,
what are we going to drink?
And so we cried out to the Lord and
the Lord showed him a tree and he threw
it into the water and the water became
drinkable and the Lord made a statute
and ordinance at Mara and he tested them.
And he said, if you will carefully
obey the Lord, your God and do what is
right in the sight and pay attention
to his commands and keep his statutes.
I will not inflict any illness on you.
And he says, like I inflicted on the
Egyptians and then we see in verse
27 and they came to ELAM where they
were 12 Springs and 70 date palms.
And they camp there by the water.
So here's what we see.
The people had just got done celebrating.
They were out of water, they were
thirsty and they begin to complain
and grumble, which sounds logical,
why we complain and grumble.
But if after what God had
just done, they forgot.
The guy could do it again by just
providing one or so they complained
and Graebel well, what did I do?
He says, okay, one, I'm going to provide
a way to get clean water to I'm going to
kind of make a, an agreement with you.
If you'll just follow me and trust me,
I'll take care of all of your needs.
So I think of Matthew six, where
he says that if you'll seek first,
the kingdom of God, all these
things will be added to you.
When we think about anything that we need
in life, our resources, God will provide
that as we seek first, the kingdom of God.
So we made this agreement with them
and he even showed them a sign of it.
Right?
Verse 27 is a sign of him.
Date trees, basically food
and water right after.
So if you're anything
like me, you see this.
If you finished up
Exodus 15, you go great.
They got it.
But let's read, we're just gonna
read verses by verse and, and kind
of walk through this together.
Um, and just see what we learn from them.
So in verses one through three, in
chapter 16 of exitus assists this, then
the entire Israelite community departed
from Islam and came to the wilderness of
sin, which is between Islam and Sinai.
And on the 15th day of the second month
after they had left the land of Egypt,
the entire Israelite community grumbled
against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness.
Do you think they learned now.
Legitimate reason they're probably hungry.
So what does it say in verse three?
The Israelites said to them, if only we
had died by the Lord's hand in the land
of Egypt, when we sat by pots of meat
and ate bread, when we wanted, instead,
you brought us into this wilderness to
make the whole assembly die of hunger.
So what happens, we're going
to learn from the Israelites.
What happens when we forget to remember,
and here's what we're going to find today.
However, they responded.
We probably have responded before.
So what happens when we forget to
remember what God has done for us?
Number one, we grumble and complain.
It's simple.
The text clearly says that.
So anybody here ever grumbled
and complained anybody?
So why do we typically, so
somebody give me some examples
of why you grumble or complain.
What's the reason why
you grumble or complain.
Somebody wronged us.
That's good.
What else?
Something didn't go my way.
One more answer.
Why do you grumble?
Oh, wait, what?
You're hungry.
Yes, I am.
So Brittany is not in here.
Yes.
I would agree with you.
That is me.
Okay.
So we grumble and complain because
something isn't comfortable, it's not
right with us, somebody wrongness it.
So it's some kind of personal
obviously issue or problem with us.
And again, we look at
this and they didn't have.
Or water again, and
then we're complaining.
And so it seems like a legitimate answer.
And we're going to kind of walk
through that a little bit in a minute
for me, if you guys want to know, um,
I've typically grumble and complain
when we all go shopping six of us.
Okay.
And do you guys probably know why?
Because the kids don't listen.
They want everything on the shelves
and then we're there for an hour and a
half nobody's else has had that issue.
Have you?
Okay.
But I have, so I grew up with.
Right.
Um, so it's not enjoyable.
Let me share a story though, where
sometimes we'll find ourselves
grumbling and complaining, even
in the middle of a blessing.
So me and my family and something that
you're, you'll hear more about us.
We have God's stories.
It seems.
Every week, something that God
is doing crazily in our lives.
And so we've been in ministry for
the last nine, almost 10 years.
And in that process, what I would
say about probably seven, eight
years ago, we were a young family.
So we didn't have all of our kids yet.
We were young in ministry and we were.
And I say poor is basically
we wanted to go on a vacation.
So we just did a staycation.
That was our goal.
So we're going to do a
staycation and we had somebody.
And again, this is one
of the blessings of God.
We had somebody walk up to us one day.
It was two days before we're going
to go on a vacation staycation
and the handwritten envelope.
And when I got to my car open that
envelope and it was a thousand dollars
and I go, oh my gosh, what the heck?
And so what it said on the note was
go take your family on a vacation.
So we planned quickly and
decided to do a trip to St.
Fe.
Um, I had found out on the Wednesday
morning that we were going to
leave that night, that I had strep.
Uh, we were driving overnight.
We got there at eight o'clock
in the morning because you drive
overnight when you have young kids.
Um, and we got to the hotel, you
can't check the hotel til 2:00 PM.
Um, but we go inside and they let us in
at 8:00 AM to get breakfast and get food.
And now here's the only
way we can do this trip.
One, we could only eat two meals.
I know you're thinking,
did we starve our kids?
We gave them snacks for lunch,
but we ate at the hotel and
we one mill in the evening.
So the, the lunch was kind of just like,
we just kind of merge those together.
Um, we couldn't do anything extra.
We went to SeaWorld.
We did go to SeaWorld.
We couldn't do anything extra than that,
which again, blessed, but in the middle
of that trip, I found myself grumbling
and complaining rather than focusing
on the blessing that God had given us.
And so I, I share that story
to say this it's either.
I would say in our lives to, to forget,
because God's done so much for us.
So, so let me just kind of step
out there when you have a bad day,
because work didn't go your way.
If you'll stop in that grumbling
and complaining and begin to
list out all that God has allowed
you to do that day breathe.
You may have a healthy family.
You may get to go home to.
That's beautiful.
Two cars that work.
And some of us, I know lately didn't work.
Right.
You're good now.
So you've got a car that works great.
So we can begin to list off
just the simple things, but
then we can go big things.
Because for me, I lean on that day,
seven years ago of the thousand
dollars that was given to us, to
me, I'll list that out and I'll find
myself listing more and more and more.
And at the end of the day, that one day,
one day bad at work isn't bad anymore.
Why?
Because I didn't forget to write.
What God's done for me too many times,
we let the thing in front of us grab
a hold of our attention so much.
We forget everything else around us.
That is going good.
So again, why didn't I complain as much?
Maybe I should've come should have
not complained as much, right.
Is because I remembered the
blessing that God had given me.
I know that life gets hard.
Right?
We had the unexpected bill again,
lost jobs, sickness, family conflict,
and we get so sucked into focusing
on the problem rather than just.
And that's exactly what Israel did.
They got sucked into focusing
on the problem rather than God.
And so when life gets
tough, we're number Nita.
Remember, um, that he has done for
us and focusing on the blessing
rather than the difficulty.
So what happens again?
When we forget to remember right.
We grumble and complain,
but what's the second thing.
Well, let's look at what Israel did.
The second thing that they did is
they question what God was doing, and
I'm going to read verse three again,
and we're actually going to read up
to 12 because I want to make sure
everybody hears this whole story.
So we see verse three, again, it
says this, it says the Israelites
said to them, if only we had died
in the Lords, uh, um, Died by the
Lord's hand in the land of Egypt.
When we sat by the pots of me and
ate all the bread we wanted, instead
you brought us into the wilderness to
make our whole assembly die of hunger.
Then the Lord said to Moses, I'm going
to rain bread from heaven for you.
What?
Like number one.
Um, to, um, it says the people
are to go out each day and
gather enough for that day.
This way I will test them to see whether
or not they will follow my instruction.
And on the sixth day, when they prepare
what they were, um, what they were
to bring in there to bring twice as
much as they gather on the other days.
So Moses and Aaron said to the
Israelites this evening, you will
know it was the Lord who brought
you out to the land of Egypt.
He's pointing them back to him.
And in the morning, you will see the
glory Lord glory, because he heard
your complaints about him for who
are we that you complained to us.
And Moses continued.
The Lord will give you meat to
eat this evening and bread that
you want in the morning for.
He has heard your complaints
and you are raising against him.
Who are we?
He says that twice you complaints,
your complaints are against us, but
really they're against the Lord.
Then Moses said to Aaron, say to the
whole entire Israelite community come
before the Lord for, he has heard you.
And as Aaron was speaking to the entire
Israelite community, they turn towards
the wilderness and there in the cloud
was the Lord Lord's glory appeared.
And the Lord spoke to Moses.
I have heard your complaints of Israel.
Tell them at Twilight, you
will eat meat in the morning.
You will eat bread until you are full.
And then you will know that
I am the Lord, your God.
So as I looked at this, first of all,
we're seeing in verse three, that they
are beginning to question the Lord.
Why did you take us out of Egypt?
Why didn't you just kill us there?
We had plenty of food
to remove a food to eat.
I started thinking about this.
The people of Israel sure.
Remembered the full pots of meat,
but they had forgotten God partying
the water and destroying the enemy
that enslaved them for 400 years.
So at times we question God, so what
I want us to talk about now is this,
because I don't want us to miss this part.
I think Joe mentioned this right?
When we get hungry.
I mean, it's.
And, and thinking for them several
days, I mean, it is difficult.
It's hard to focus, so it makes sense
why they would be maybe grumbling
complaining and things like that.
So let me ask this question.
How many of all in the last couple of
years, maybe just in your lifetime, how
many of you have had a tragedy happen?
Bad days, doubt, fear,
or lost a loved one.
Raise hands.
Okay.
So I'd say the majority of us, how
many of you all have experienced
one or two of those things in
the last couple of years, right?
Okay.
And the last year, how many of y'all
at least experience one of those?
Okay.
So more and more you look at this, we
consistently go through trials strong.
I mean, basically things that are
difficult to tragedies, they're hard.
And so I don't want to discount
that they're hard because obviously
we see the people of Israel were,
were dealing with being hungry.
But with when life is.
It's easy to remember
God and maybe praise him.
But when it's not, we begin
to question what God is doing.
And that's exactly what the
people of Israel were doing.
They just came off this major win.
Right.
But they didn't respond well.
So one of the questions I want us to just
talk about for a minute, why do you think,
when you think about this text, why do you
think God allows these things to happen?
Why do you think God allowed
them to not have food and water?
What was the reasoning?
What was he trying to do anybody
people to come to him, right.
Rely on him.
So they were, he was testing them.
And if you even look at verse
four, he even talks about this.
Then the Lord said to Moses, I'm going
to rain bread from heaven for you.
And the people are going
to gather them each day.
This way I will test them to see
if they will follow my instruction.
See, whenever we think about our lives.
Guys.
I really want us to think about this
if we've said, okay, I've given my life
to Jesus, which means this it's, it's
not, not only have I been forgiven of
my sins and I get to spend eternity
with him, but I've given my life to him.
What it means is that as we go, we go
to Jesus, we go to him in our times of
need and we shore to Pence upon him.
That's what, that's, what it
means is what we should do.
Right.
But again, it's easy when life is.
We began to be so focused on our
situations that we forget the God that
saved us and the God that promised to
take care of us no matter what's going on.
And that's exactly what
the people of Israel did.
He, so he was testing them and
I thought this was interesting.
He was testing him.
Not because he didn't know their
hearts, he was testing them
because they didn't know their own.
I guess I think it's so important.
We're going to fail at times and
we're going to complain about.
But this is the, the role of
the holy spirit, which means
God living inside of us.
It's the role of God's word is to convict
us and draw us back to a place of peace.
During this time, it's a place of
comfort, a place of love, and to not
spend our time away from the Lord in this.
Um, and so the attitude we
take towards our difficulties
determines the direction our life.
And I've heard this statement said
so many times by Craig Rochelle,
your life has heading the direction
of your strongest thought.
And I would totally agree with that
because the more that we think on
the issues, the struggles in our
lives, the more it will consume us.
And we'll forget the God who is over that.
We actually were.
We met as a core team
as a church last night.
And one of the things I taught
through was Exodus three and four.
And it was Moses.
When he finally said,
Lord, you can't use me.
I'm not elegant in my.
And here's what the Lord said
to Moses, Moses who made your
mouth, who made people to speak?
Isn't it?
I, the Lord.
So in those moments, guys, when you're
looking at your issue or your struggle,
I'm not neglecting that as though
it's not important because it is, it
absolutely is, but God is in control
and over not only that situation, but
being able to walk with you through it.
So we'll quickly go to the.
We'll understand that he
will help us through it.
And every time we see the Lord, even
though they said, they complained
to God, well, God continued to bless
them and provide, and he was trying
to remind them, Hey, don't forget.
Don't forget.
So how do we not forget God
in the middle of a struggle is
by not forgetting to remember.
Right.
And that's exactly what they forgot.
They sure remember Egypt, but they didn't.
What God had done.
So what happens when we forget to remember
we grumble and complain, we question what
God's doing, and then we see where we
try to take back control of our lives.
So where do we see this in the text?
And I'm going to read a little bit longer
block of text, but it's 13 through 30.
This is where to see the people of Israel.
So at the evening, the quail
came and covered the camp.
And the morning there was a
layer of do all around the camp.
And when the layer of do evaporated,
there was fine flakes on the desert
surface, as fine as frost on the.
And when the Israelites saw it, they
asked one another, what is this?
Because they didn't know what it was.
And Moses told them it is bread.
The Lord has given you.
This is what the Lord has commanded
gather as much of it as each person needs.
And you may take two courts per
individual, according to the number
of people, each of you has an iStent.
So the Israelites did this, some gathered
a lot and some gathered a little.
And when they measured it by
courts, the person who gathered
a lot had served, had no surplus.
And the person who gathered a
little had no shortage and each
gathered as much as needed to eat.
And Moses said to them, no one
has to let any of it remain until.
But they didn't listen to Moses.
Some people left part of it until the
morning and the bread grew worms and
stank, and therefore Moses was angry with
him and they gathered it every morning in
each gathered as much as needed to eat.
But when the sun grew hot, it.
And on the sixth day, they gathered
twice as much food for courts, a piece.
And all the leaders in the community
came and reported this to Moses.
And he told them, this is
what the Lord has said.
Tomorrow is the day of complete rest,
a holy Sabbath to the Lord, bake what
you want to bake and boil what you
want to boil and set aside everything
left over and keep it until morning.
And so they set it aside until morning
as Moses commanded and it didn't stink
or have magazine and eat it today.
Moses said, because today's the.
Uh, to the Lord today, you
won't find any in the field.
And for six days you will gather it.
But on the seventh day, the
Sabbath, there will be none yet.
On the seventh day, some of
the people went out to gather,
but they did not find any.
And then the Lord said to Moses,
how long will you refuse to keep
my commands and instructions?
And I'm just going to stop right there.
We, when we forget what God has
done, what God has commanded,
what God has promised us.
Just like the Israelites,
we neglect his commands.
Don't take any more than you need.
Take this certain amount.
They took more.
And those who took more
didn't have an abundance.
And those who took just the right
number had enough will we'll don't
don't go look for any on the Sabbath.
Um, cause it gives some
for the day before.
So they, what did they do?
They took two portions the day before
my guess is that they ate at all and
they went out looking forward again.
And so what happens when we forget
to remember all the guests done?
We try to take back control of our lives.
What did they do?
They were trying to hoard food
because they want to control of that.
They tried to take things
into their own hands.
Guys, I'll tell you this
out a personal example.
There's times when life's going difficult.
When I begin to get to the
Lord, maybe life's going good.
And I don't even seek the.
I don't even trust the Lord.
I'm, I'm my savings accounts.
Trying to get big.
My, my I'm trying to just make
sure I got control of everything
that's going on my life.
And God reminds me quickly
that I'm not a control.
He is.
And that's what he was
showing Israelites in this.
So they lacked faith that
God would provide food again.
Um, they were trying to
take the place of God.
Right.
And I think that's challenging too.
And so how often in our lives, I think
about this, how often in our lives,
when God blesses us and provides
for us, do we keep it all and act
like God won't supply it anymore.
I'll challenge you with this.
God's word says it is more blessed
to give than it is to receive.
I think too many times when we receive
a blessing, we forget that God gives
us that blessing, not just for us,
not to just be for us, but to give
through us, to give through us.
And so.
If you have a job every day, if you
get a bonus and Christmas every day,
if you have clothes on your back and
you think, man, God's provided this
for me, I must be a blessed person.
I began to think God has blessed us.
God has provided for us to
be a blessing to others.
What a great season coming up
to be a blessing to others.
And as a church we prioritize
at each month by serving our
community and we'll do more of that.
But I started thinking about
this is when we, when we
wonder will God provide for us.
If we give, if we give
will God provide for us.
And I'll challenge you with this,
when you give financially here to the
church, well, God provide for you.
Absolutely.
I've seen it personally in my life.
The moment that we started giving
me everybody talked about this,
the moment we started giving a
tide, which is 10% of our income.
Somehow we had more money to live
on each month than we did the month
before our math didn't work out.
Meaning, like we'd said
it won't work, but it did.
Why?
Because that's how God works because
tithing is a way to honor the Lord
and be a part of God's kingdom work.
So that's just a challenge to you.
As I look into this, you know, when
we forget to remember that God has
supplied everything we have, right?
Our job, our breadth, our abilities, open
doors, money, health, we start acting
like we have control and you know what?
We have a responsibility to
steward that destroyed everything.
Guys gives us.
But God has promised to provide them
in Matthew 6 33, but seek first the
kingdom of God and his righteousness and
these things will be provided for you.
So when we forget to remember, we start
trying to take back control of our lives
and only invite God in on the big things.
We only invite God in on crisis mode,
but God wants us to be invited in him
to be invited in on every aspect of it.
So when we forget to remember, we
complain and grumble, we question what
God is doing and we try to take back.
Here's what I believe the overarching
theme, the last statement you're
kind of want to know, are we, uh,
ending, heading towards the end when
we forget to remember, we miss out
on truly enjoying God's blessing.
When we forget to remember, we miss out
on truly experiencing God's blessing
personally, I've experienced that.
But I think even when we look at the
Israelites and when they begin to
complain and grumble, would they begin
to take their focus off of what God did.
They forgot to celebrate
all the miracles guys.
God gave them manna.
God gave them basically bread and quilt
every single day to provide their needs.
And they were so worried about, oh,
he may not do it tomorrow, but he was
the same God that part of the waters
was the same God that provided water.
It was the same God that's
providing food now, but he
began to begin to forget for us.
When we forget to remember, we missed
the blessing of experiencing God's
Providence and in every year of our lives.
And so if all we ever do is focus
on what we don't have, we'll never
enjoy the blessings that we do.
So although we see the people
of Israel, it seems like they
have a legitimate complaint.
Here's what I want you to see.
God's perspective the Lord.
Didn't because the Lord saw
people that chose to complain
first, rather than trust the Lord.
It's a challenge to us.
If we truly believe that the Lord
has saved us, that he could save us.
If he can save you from eternal damnation,
if he could save you from eternally
separated from God forever, if he can
save you for that, why, why can't he wait?
He can.
So what, why do you not think?
And I'm not just so you know, I'm
not like trying to be a jerk at this.
I'm just really even saying
to myself, why can't.
Sometimes trust the Lord for great
and mighty things to provide.
Whenever I'm generous to provide.
Whenever I feel like that the life's not
going right whenever there's a struggle in
my marriage, whenever there's a struggle
on my family relationship or whatever,
there's just a struggle in the world.
Why can't I believe that my God, who
chose to send his son to die for my
sins, can't choose to do anything he
wants to provide and meet the needs
that I have and the needs that we
have around our community and around.
I know this after today.
I want us to know my
God can, your God can.
So whenever I think about this,
you know, my testimony ever, ever
since the last 12 years, I started
seeing God do some amazing things.
Um, and I actually challenged, um, our
core team last night and this idea, and I
want to challenge you with the same thing.
If you want to experience God, move in
mighty ways, you need to put your yes.
On the.
You need to start attempting great things.
You need to start
trusting God for miracles.
When you start seeing God work in
your life, and it may be small,
those small things become big
because you start seeing God work.
But when we, when we take the control
out of God's hands, we will miss
experiencing the joy of God's blessing.
So I think about this over the last
12 years, we've seen God open doors.
I thought he could never have.
I've seen God provide
financially when we had needs.
And so you guys know, I started
just recounting and I, I lost count
around 30, 30 different times.
In the last 12 years, we've either
had a financial concern hospital
bills to, to needs to things.
We didn't know how we
were going to do this.
The next month.
Financial needs 30 different times.
God provided a way through.
Through through just opportunities to
things of, of jobs, part-time jobs.
I'm telling you every
time, how do I know that?
Because I reflected and I
remembered the man without
God, we wouldn't be here today.
We, we, we sat here just so you guys
know is, you know, our full story.
You may not know her full story.
We were heading here to
plant a church in 2019.
Um, and we were at half the funding.
We needed December 1st, 2019, and
we had already sold our house.
Told everybody we're
leaving past assessment.
We're moving, we're living
in temporary housing.
We're moving in 30 days to come
to Cincinnati, to plant a church.
We had half of our funding.
What happened on December 30th.
We had 1% of the funding we
needed to get here on the ground.
Why it's not because we're special.
It's because we trust the God
who is, and that's one of many.
Stories and it goes, it's
not all about finances.
So, you know, we've seen
our daughter healed.
We've seen families restored where
we're seeing some cool things
happen with Brittany's family.
Um, God is doing some amazing things.
When you begin to trust him, when you
begin to put the control back in his hands
and you begin to choose to celebrate and
experience the joy that he has for you.
So why do I share all these things?
Why, why do I believe, you know, three or
four weeks ago when I was praying about
what we should, we should teach on today?
Why did God bring up X to 16?
I believe that God brought
up X to 16 because each one
of us needed to hear this.
If you say, Hey, I'm here because
I chose to be here this morning.
I would say you're here because
God divinely appointed you to be
here because there was something
in this message you need to hear.
It's not about me and the
way in which I shared.
It's the way God spoke to you in this.
Are you forgetting to remember?
Do you forget on a daily basis, maybe
like I do at times, what do we do?
How do we overcome this?
We need to realize that how do we
not forget to remember so we can
experience God, move in amazing ways.
We need to start placing
things in our lives.
As reminders.
I challenged our team this morning
as I'll challenge you guys today,
put sticky notes on your call.
On your steering wheel so that every
time you get in, say, thank God for
the blessing you experienced today
or in your life, put a sticky note or
write it on your mirror with lipstick.
Yes, man.
You can use your wife's lipstick.
I gave you approval it's okay.
Right.
God remember, remember right.
Whatever you need to do.
Why, why would we do.
What we see in the Bible, we're
consistently in the old Testament, they
would build altars or they would set
up stones as a remembrance, something
to say, Hey, when we see this, we'll
remember all that God has done for us.
It's these things that we place in our
lives to not forget to remember, you know
what I think the number one thing that
we each one of us can do, if we'll have
a personal daily relationship with the
Lord, if we'll spend time in the word.
The Lord will remind you.
He will.
So how do you do that?
If you, if you're not spending daily
time in the word, where do you start?
I want to be just encouraging to you
because I used to struggle with this.
Even as a pastor, whenever I would say,
well, not as a pastor, but whenever I
was young in my faith, whenever I was on
staff at a church, I struggled with it.
Well, why did it get in a routine?
And I found for me personally, the Bible.
The I use the YouVersion Bible
app, one of the easiest ways to
stay in the word consistently
you get on there, it has plans.
It has all the Bibles and
you can connect with friends.
You can go through planes together,
you can hold each other accountable.
I'm always liking Kristen
and Joe's, uh, plans.
They're doing some plans on the YouVersion
app and I sent him a text this week.
I'm so excited to see you guys in the word
this week, and I hope it encourages them.
Right.
And, and it encourages me to get
in the word because when I did.
I don't forget to remember to God is
challenging each of us, not to forget what
he has done for us on the cross, right.
To save us from our sins to give us new
life, to experience what I would say.
We get to experience
God, this side of heaven.
I think too many Christians give their
lives to Jesus and forget that God has
given them the ability to celebrate now.
Uh, the life God's called them
to live in a blessing experience.
Relationship with Jesus
before you get to eternity.
Yes.
I'm looking forward to having one
day, but I want you to celebrate
and enjoy the relationship.
God gives you.
He has called us to live in that now.
So as we move to a time of imitation,
um, I always share, I don't ever
want to assume what is the purpose of
invitation I want to share clearly, what
is imitation invitation is two things.
One is, it's a time
for you to reflect God.
What did you speak to me about
in the middle of this message?
Maybe through the worship service?
What are you speaking to me?
Lord?
How do I respond to this?
And so one of the things that we've
done in our worship set at the
end of service is we want to give
time for you to consider that and
walk through that too many times.
We'll catch ourselves leading
straight into worship and you
feel like, well, do I worship?
Do I stand?
What do I do?
We want you to, whenever the music starts,
there's gonna be no singing for you to
just bow your head wherever you are.
If you want to get down on your knees,
whatever you are comfortable with and
begin to seek the Lord about what he is
asking you to take away from today's.
Consider what God has done.
That's part of invitation.
Here's the other side of invitation.
When you hear the word invitation, that
means inviting to do something wrong.
We're inviting you to consider what the
Lord taught you, but we're also inviting
you this, if you've never given your
life to Jesus, if you have questions
about what does it mean to follow Jesus,
that's an invitation for you to seek.
Well, you don't have to do that alone.
And that's why you see every week,
I'll say, Hey, I'm gonna stay in
the back because I don't want you to
feel embarrassed to walk up front.
I want you to be able to come
back and say, Hey, I got questions
and we may not answer all of them
back there, but we can begin the
conversation of what it is to know.
Jesus, maybe for you.
You're asking this question,
what is my next step?
I'm a believer.
Maybe it's baptism.
Maybe you're a believer and
you're baptized, but you want
to get involved in the church.
Maybe you want to ask that question.
That's part of invitation as well.
So after you take time to consider
what the Lord has taught you, as you
take time to come back and talk with
me, our team will also lead you in an
opportunity to worship and what I would
say on the way out to give God praise
for what he's done in your life as well.
So I'm going to pray
and then we'll do that.
So Lord Jesus, thank you.
Because your word is truth
that we see Lord today.
I'm an example of a people and Israel
Lord, where they forgot to remember.
But Lord, I think the more
that we look at their stories.
We can replace the Israelites with us
because we catch ourselves forgetting
to remember that even though life gets
difficult, that you're always present,
even though life is tough that you are
one prayer away from meeting our spiritual
Nene, our personal need to give us peace
and confidence in the midst of a storm.
God, I just pray that, that everyone
in this room, Lord, including myself.
That we take time during this
invitation to just say, Lord, speak
to just take time to say, Lord, what
is it that you want to teach me that
you want me to apply to my life?
Lord, I pray that each one of us
Lord leaves out of here with the
plan in mind to put things in place,
to not forget, to remember all that
they, that you've done for them.
Lord, I also just pray that today there's
someone in this room that doesn't know.
Someone that wants and desires to take a
next step, but they don't know what that
is, that they will come back to the back
and they'll say, Hey, I've got a question.
Help me know Jesus, or
help me know my next step.
And Lord, I just pray that you give me
the wisdom to be able to walk with them
in that, or give them the faith to do
it because Lord only you can do that.
We thank you for this time and we
just pray this in your headline name.
Amen.